So good morning everyone.
Time in Toronto, in Ontario is 8:30 AM.
I believe some of the students
are in different time zones.
In Asia, Europe, US so.
I have a good time actually in
whatever time zone you located.
Uh, let's wait for five another five minutes and we will start the
session. Thank you everyone.
Hello Dr. Fani.
Hello Phillip. A student is asking if
it's an introductory class today.
Yes, yes, actually today we are
not going to cover any new
topics. We just, I mean
introducing the course and just
kind of motivating example why
we should take this course, yes.
So in one minute
we're gonna start.
So let's start.
Ah. Just to make sure that
everyone has the focus to this
slide. So please everyone just
send a notification. I mean kind
of feedback, happy or surprise
or faster so I can make sure
that everyone can see this
slide. Please do that right now.
Cool.
So I got 3 notification. Yes
yeah they're coming.
Good Sims everyone. I actually
have the focus on this slide, so
let's start. Before for almost.
Welcome everyone to this course.
In this session I'm going to
just introduce the main concepts
and motivating you to know the
reason why we should take this
course. As a computer scientist
or as a student who take the
computer science program.
But before that, let me
introduce to you the
moderator each session.
It's gonna be moderated by Sean. Go ahead and introduce yourself
to the students.
Hello, I'm Sean. I'm a third year computer science at
you you Windsor and it's my first time TAing so.
It's, I hope we have a good semester.
Thank you Sean. Also, uh, we have Phillip here. Phillip is
supposed to be our media guy in
this course. He did very I mean
awesome helping videos for you.
You already saw those help
helping videos and also he is
responsible to prepare the
recordings of its sessions and adding captions etc. So Phillip,
you go ahead and introduce
yourself to the students.
Hello everyone, my name is Phillip Pham and I'm also a third
year computer science student at
the University of Windsor.
And yeah like Dr. Fani says, I'll be dealing with processing the live
lecture recordings, adding closed captioning and then
putting it on Microsoft Stream so everyone can watch it if
they missed it, or if they
want to review later. And yeah
you can also check out my 6 Blackboard video tutorials for
this class. I highly recommend
you do so and thank you
everyone and I hope you have
an amazing semester of you.
Ok, thank you Phillip, and now we're ready to start.
As you can see here in this first slide, it's a colorful
image took by the Hubble Space
Telescope. It's very
small portion of this
space and you can have a
look at the high
resolution of the image
in this link. In the
bottom of the slide.
But um. Let me.
So.
The thing is, this is just a
small portion of the universe
full of stars. So just to look
at what portion of the Sky we're
looking at this image, there is
a video and you can click on
this URL, an CD video and now we
do that. This is the view from
the earth and.
You can see that the power or
the performance of the Hubble.
A public Space Telescope.
So as it zoom inside to
the universe.
And then it ends with this
beautiful, colorful image
of the universe.
So the reason I put the
user slides in this video
here is that.
The science of astronomy is not
only about building telescope.
But as you can see here, I
mean having a high
performance telescope is a
huge I mean help to the
astronomers to study the
stars.
In this course we are going to
to study the same so.
Your science is not the science
of just building computers or
machines to do the tasks, but
having a high performance
computers is a huge help for the
programmers or for computer
scientists to solve difficult
problems. Uh, but we we we
should know that. I mean,
computer science is not just
computers or astronomy is not
just the telescopes, but as I
said, if you know the if you
have the high performance
computers or how high
performance telescope. It's a
huge help to decides.
So in the bottom of this slide
you have a famous quote by
Dijkstra which says that I mean
we shouldn't. It implies that we
shouldn't mix the tools with the
science, but in this course will
see that I mean starting the
tools is a huge help of four
desires in this domain. Is
starting the computers how the
computer system working is a
huge help to the computer
scientist or to the programmers?
Ah.
Centuries bag way back. I mean,
since the human individuals was
able to see the stars.
They are the problems actually
emerges. This human individuals
wants to solve these problems.
One of the most basic problems
was this. They wanted to know
what's the distance between the
earth, and the land they're living in and the stars. They just
wanted to measure the height of
the mountains or they wanted to
know what's the length of the
earth. So these are just
very basic problems that
existed. I mean long before
I mean, the invention of the
computer systems.
All The thing is.
Ah, although there are lots of
problems in the universe and we
are trying to propose some
solutions to those problems.
There are various small portion
of that can be solved by taking
finished actions. This finished
actions could be taken by human
individuals or machines which we
said we could call them
computers. In computer science
discipline, we have two courses
in undergrad theory of automata
and theory of computation. In
these two course in undergrad.
Also there's another cores in
the graduate studies theory of
computer science. This study.
What type of problems can be
solved first of all? And if we
can solve the problems or the
first step is just to prove that
there is a solution for that
problem, the second step is.
Is that solution to the problem
can be done in a finish time or
in a limited time, or by taking
a finit number of steps to
finish this solution in order to
answer the problem or no so.
It in those I mean courses in
the undergrad. You should take
those courses. I mean the theory
of automata or theory of
computation. It is proven that
very small portion of the
problems can be solved by taking
finit number of steps.
Those finished number of steps
can be taken by him and
individuals, or later we
invent computers and we as
actually expect the computers
take those finished actions.
Are you already became
familiar with some basic
problems when you took the
course comp for 200 you start
writing programming C
language. So basically in
computer science when we
wanted to solve the problem
by taking finished actions by
computers, we have to write
programs. So we reduce the
problems to the programs.
Any programs has two main parts. As you may know the first part
is the data. So first of all we
have to represent the
information in the universe or
in the real world.
Into the computer systems, so
this data part actually focuses
on how to represent or how to
store the information in the
real world in computers.
The second part is the
algorithm. Those steps that was
definitive steps or those
processing steps that we can
apply on the data in order to
solve the problem, and then at
the end we have to represent the
answer or the solution as a new
data so you can see a big
overlap within these two
categories. The data modeling
and the algorithms.
All in computer science program
door. Some courses that focus is
the main focus is on the data
modeling. It is solved with data
structure. It focuses on how to
represent the information in the
real world into the main memory
or into the memory that actually
if we lose the power, the old
information is gone.
Next step is you have to take
the course called file structure
which is basically deals with
how to persist the data. If we
lose the power we still want to
store the data so the file
structure is dealing with those
type of topics in the database
management system. You'll become
familiar with how to make data
accessible to multiple users
without. Producing some
areas or inconsistencies.
And data warehouse is the
warehouse where we have huge
amount of data in computer
systems accessible by all, I
mean many users all around
the world.
And big data and cloud. As you
may hear those topics, those are
heated topics. Nowadays they are
dealing with storing the
information in Internet.
Basically how to store the data
in a transparent way that every
user can access to the data
without knowing where the actual
data is stored.
In the second, I mean in the
other side of the program we
have algorithm and those courses
that deal with designing the
algorithm. So the first course
is the algorithm design, usually
in computer science Department
they offer cost algorithm design
and data structure. Because of
the overlap between data and
algorithm. But the algorithm
design teach you teaches you if
we have a problem. How can we
approach that problem? How can
we solve that problem with best
patterns? The algorithm
analysis, the second step in
algorithm is that if we propose
an algorithm to the problem, how
fast it is, or how much memory
we need to solve that problem by
running the algorithm. So it
deals with comparing the
proposed algorithm and how we
can select the better algorithm.
AI machine learning and data
mining or those new concepts? I
mean when I say new, come in 20
years, I mean old concepts.
Uh, they are dealing with how
can we employ the human
individuals intelligence to
solve the problem?
For instance, in machine
learning, will approaches.
Uh, the same as the baby
learns new topics or concepts
in the world, so we want to
incorporate the way a baby
learns the concepts in
machines. Now we want to train
the machines to learn
concepts.
But The thing is.
Knowing the data and elbows him,
is it enough for a computer
science program? I mean a
computer scientist or person who
take the program to solve the
problems with computers, or we
need more knowledge.
Uh, just to show you.
An example that it's not enough
to know only how to model the
data or how to propose some
algorithm to solve the problem.
I'm going to through some
examples by coding and show you
that you have to know where
these data and algorithm is
running. The computers you have
to know the structure of the
computers, how the computers are
executing the programs or the
statements in your program.
And it gives you a huge benefit
as a programmer.
So before we start next step of
the presentation, I'm ready for
your questions so far.
Is there any questions?
I don't think any cool.
I actually is not cool because I
mean having questions means that
you are interested in the topic.
So please please I mean ask
questions and I'm ready to
answer to the best of my
knowledge. So we want to write a
program kind of a sample program
that has a data and algorithm
and we choose the most.
Basic problem to solve, just to
show you that even in the most
basic problem, although we we
may know. I mean, we say that we
know how to program a solve that
problem. I wanted to show you to
show you that.
Knowing the hardware
actually helps you a lot, so
we start coding in C
language in this course.
Because you already passed the
course 1400, you know how to
program in C. In this
course, the
programming languages
C or C++.
The reason is you become
familiar with the sea, but with
create project in C++. But we
don't program in C++. The only
reason is that I just wanted to
show you that there are some
limitation to see language and
C++ offers some advanced topics
that it kind of motivates you to
move on from C language to C++
language. But but in this course
we are not going to teach you
how to program in C++.
We just called in C. As you
already know how to program
in C language and we just
create project in C++ and
then you can compare these
two languages ansi the
limitation of the C language
programming environment. You
can. It's up to you. You can
choose any programming
environment to code. Most
famous ones are Codeblocks,
Netbeans and Eclipse.
In this course in my slides and
in labs are my pictures or my
samples are all based on the
Eclipse and there isn't. Is
eclipse is already installed in
the computers in the campus and
you are able to connect to those
computers remotely. So in the
lab manual which going to be
published late this week, you
can see that how can you connect
to the computers in the campus
and how can you open eclipse
project and create new programs.
Even if you cannot connect to
the computers in the school,
eclipse, Netbeans and code
blocks are all free and open
source. You can easily go to the
website and download the
software an insult on your local
computer, so those are the
reasons that we choose these
environments. There are free and
open source. So.
Here I ask the Eclipse.
So I put these snapshots just
for those that who cannot attend
this session, but let's just
wanted to share my eclipse
project and then we start just
writing the most simple problem.
So let me end this.
Can I open the eclipse?
So we are going to start writing
program to just add 2 numbers.
So this is the most simple as
program actually or problem. We
know just adding two integer
numbers. So let me.
Open iPad, put it
my eclipse here.
So are you able to see the?
Eclipse environment here.
You can just come in a.
Send a notification and I
can see that you can see
the Eclipse.
Oh cool.
So let me just close
these project.
So in Eclipse, in order to
create a new project, you can
simply go to the file.
A Reece knew and
then here project.
Please, I mean we we please do
not choose this option because
it gives you some kind of
confusing options. But here just
click project. We are going to
just create a new project and
then here we select C++ C++
project. As I said we create
project in C++ but we code in C
language. So don't worry about
that. You know you don't know
what is the C++ we are going to
code in C language.
So and then next.
Here are please choose the hello
world C++ project because it
gives you the I mean uh ready
environment for the programming
so we can just customize it or
change it for our own purpose.
An in the right side please be
reminded that select the do not
select the Krusty. See I'm on
windows so I select sequins,
GCC. If you're on Linux there is
another option. Linux GCC.
An if you are in Mac I guess I
believe it's called Macdissi so
please select that and then put
in name for your project. So
here I select the name com.
6:15 and then,
for the Week 01.
And then, uh, we are going
to solve a Monday recession
A and we are going to solve
the most simplest problem,
addition. Simple addition.
And then I put my name here.
This is the format for your lab
if you want to submit your main
programming assignments. And
then just create just click
finish. You can go to the next
visual step of The Wizard and
then put some Copyright notes
an etc. But you can simply end
the whole result here just by
clicking finish.
So when you click, the
finish creates a empty
project for you. That ad
puts down something like
that. So let's get removed
the extras here.
This is the most simplest
program in C language.
So just let me window project I
just wanted to show the project
on the left.
Yeah, when you create this new
project you can see in the left
side that it creates a project
for you with the just one file.
This is defined that is open for
you, that's there. So now we're
going to write a program to just
two. Add 2 numbers. So in C
language any problem can be
reduced to a function. So
function has a return type,
so this is the return of an
addition and we pick a name
for the function for. For
adding two numbers we need
an input. I pair of numbers
integer a an integer B.
And then we create a result of
the I mean Function A+B. So in
order to solve the addition
problem, we just use the
operator. Plus in C language.
And then return a result.
But this is the most simplest
program, so actually we haven't
solved the problem of summation.
We just use these some operator
in the C language. So let's just
test this function or to see
that it is possible to solve the
addition. So let's ask the user.
To enter 2 numbers.
And then if the user Inputs 2
numbers, we have to receive.
User enters 2 numbers. You
have to receive those two
numbers, so numbers are on the
symbol, so you know when we
receive the input from the
user. You have to store it in
a variable as you know. So
let's create two variable
Inter number one and #2.
Also, we have to sort the
results somewhere. We could call
the results some.
So the first number the
user enters you can store
it in a variable number in
the variable number one.
So then we ask the user
to enter another number.
I'm just living number the
second number in #2 variable.
And then we say that sum is
equal to. Now we have to
call the function in order
to add the.
2 numbers given by the user.
So we call the add number
function for to apply on the
number one and #2.
And then at the end we have to.
Enter result.
So. Say that.
Is number plus this moment as
you know the present as person.
These are all formatted
specifiers in scanner for printf
function. So it determines how
to interpret the numbers or the
input from the user. So when we
send, we hear you say that the
input from the user should be
interpreted as a decimal number.
Or when we say here, Eprint, as
percent D plus percent, it means
that we are going to add put
decimal numbers. Equal to
another person be so the first
person we gonna be the first
number. So basically you want to
say that number one. You want to
ask for that number one plus #2
is equal to some.
And then.
That's pretty much as simple as
program to add 2 numbers so we
can build the program by just
clicking this hammer. I mean, I
can't just to build the program
before that. Remember, in
Eclipse you have to save the
program 1st and then build it.
Uh, this is a strange because
in other environments such as
Python, in PyCharm or other
environment it is
automatically. It
automatically saves your
program, but in Eclipse you
have to click the save and
then build a program.
So as you can see here, there
are three errors in this
program. So basically it says
that the scanner and printer is
not declared. So, uh.
Is any of you can tell me
why? How can I solve this
these errors?
You can raise your hand and then
Sean can make you present it and
then you can tell me what's the
reason for this problem and how
can we solve this.
Just as a reminder from
your course 1400.
Yeah, 100 and chat.
OK, in the chat.
Oh nice, yes yeah. True.
Actually these functions
are the standard IO.
Find a standard IO
functions so you have to
include the header for.
Bad library.
Standard IO Dot H when we
include the Library of an IO
actually then we have to save it
and then build it.
So now we have zero errors and
warning and then we can run the
program when you build the
program in the binaries here you
can see that the executable file
is created by the Eclipse based
on your machine you have on Mac
or on Linux this binary file is
different. So you can execute
this file to run the program or
you can run the program in the
inside the eclipse. So here in
the icon you can just.
Click display icon and then
it gives you this environment
in a running mode.
And then you can just simply it
ask for two numbers. So we say
that 25 + 15.
And there is a 25 + 13 is 38,
so it's working properly. But
there is only a minor bug here.
The enter 2 numbers actually is
output after the numbers. But
here in our program you put it
before the input in the.
Numbers, so is any of you know
what's this? What is the reason
behind this running bug?
Oh, you can see their
output or let me put here.
This is the output.
Yes, travel Travis is OK. Yes I.
I mean, you're absolutely right.
The thing is, uh.
In Eclipse, actually in standard
IO, when it outputs the, I mean
the result it buffers and then
if the buffer is still have some
space it doesn't flush it, so it
waits until the buffer is full
and then put the buffer in the
output. So in order to force the
program to flush the buffer, the
standard IO buffer there is a
comment called F Flash.
So you have to say that flush
the standard ads put.
So then we have to save it,
build it again.
And then we can run it.
And now you can see that
after outputting the enter
2 numbers, it flushes the
buffer. So we have this
and then now we have to.
Input 2 numbers and
this is the running.
Also you have the option to
roundly binary file, so let
me just.
This is commands.
A prompt from the Windows
Command prompt, so instead of
just running your program inside
the eclipse, you can just run
the executable file so.
In order to run the binary file,
you have to find this file. So
when you create your project.
Eclipse create this project for
you in a folder. You have to
find that folder. Eclipse
workspace. So when you go to the
workspace I created this project
as. Uh, so inside this the whole
project in the eclipse is here.
So if you go to the debug this
is the executable file.
Depending on your machine, Mac
or Linux, the name of the file
is the same, but the past, I
mean the. I mean the postfix or
the extension of the file might
be different, so just grab this.
I just wanted to grab this and.
Put it into the command prompt.
So we just can run it
executive file and now for
instance under 56 + 224.
And it outputs the result,
right? So you may think that so
everything is fine. It's working
properly and it adds to numbers.
Well, that's run the program
again. For other extreme cases.
I mean, let's put some big
numbers. So for instance 99.
Is a 5 digit number. All the
digits are 9 + 1.
And it's still. It's why it
seems that it's working very. I
mean good. So let's put another
big number, for instance.
This number +1.
So now you see that, uh, even
this simple problem cannot.
This program cannot solve
adding two big numbers. Can
you see my screen?
So let me yeah here, as you can
see here. We expect the program
to send these two numbers. I
mean, the result would be one
single one and all about leading
with zeros so, but the result is
that minus some incorrect number
and then plus one and then we
see in negative number and it's
this kind of strange numbers so.
But then the way you're back
to the program, let's let's
be back to the program.
It seems that everything
is fine, just adding two
numbers so.
Anybody else you can tell me?
Uh, that what's the problem?
Yes, good actually can
traverse and Dalton.
Yes, integer overflow.
Ah yes, somebody yeah. Michael
proposes that instead of just
using integer using long
integer. Overflow yes, true. I
mean, integer is too small.
You're absolutely right. But The
thing is, this knowledge comes
from the knowing the C language
or knowing how to store the
numbers in the computer system.
So I'm saying even if you store,
even if you use the long
integer, or even if you use
double is still, there is a
limitation to input numbers in
order to restore the numbers.
So all of you are right, so we
can change the let me.
You can change the ends to long
guns. Also you can change the
long into long long int so but
again there's a limit to these
spaces in the C language.
Another extreme thing is that
that's in select just using the
sum of. Russian, but the C
language and Bill limited, with
the limitation of the C language
in the storing the numbers.
Let's kill the problem by
writing our own addition.
So we already know how to do
adding two numbers from the
primary school, so let me share
my video. 1st and.
You can on the board.
Share my camera.
So. You're able to see my face
and my blackboard, yes.
Cool so.
Find the primary school. We know
that. I mean adding two numbers,
for instance 9.
58 plus for instance 13.
So we say that we do, adding
each digit but each other
from the less significant
position to the most
significant position. So from
this sort of that side, so 8
+ 3 is 11, so you have to put
11 here, but we can. Now we
have to put just one #1
digit. So when then we divide
it 11 by 10 One.
So we put the remainder in the
result. And this is the Carrie.
So we put this carry to the
next position. So then it here
we would have.
One here and the characters here
and then 1 + 5 six and then 7
and 9 + 0 is not so this is
the basic algorithm which is
proposed centuries back to do
the addition of two numbers. So
now we have we can write our own
addition instead of just limit
be limited to this C language.
So I borrowed a code from.
A website, gigs for gigs.
Uh, let me import if you already
have a project and you want to
import your to the Eclipse, you
can simply import the project to
the environment. So let me share
back my screen again.
So here you can in the
environment if you right click.
And then there's an option
called import. Also, you can
import from file import.
And in the general section
you have the option to import
an existing project to your
workspace. So I already
created a project to do this
algorithm of summation.
I bought it from a website.
So I just wanted to add that
on project large addition.
So this is the search and
let me. Let's close this.
And open the project file.
So. Here is the program.
Actually I bought this
program from.
Zoom a little bit.
OK editors Oh man so.
Here's the website I borrowed
the code. So you can go to this
website and see the comments or
discussion over disk. I mean
piece of code.
It has one function adding an
main function to apply on the
given #2 given numbers. So
basically it I mean except 2
numbers as we did from the
previous examine project and
then it calls the add function.
To do the adding for the number
one and #2 but this time.
The function of the adding is
not the C++ adding, but it has
its own algorithm to do the
added. The main part of the code
is this. The line 22 to the 29.
Here you can see that it's it
says. I mean in school
mathematics basically. Let me
just, uh, share my.
Camera again and then explain to
you what this code does.
OK, so basically it says that
instead of just.
Need numbers in integer long
integer or double. You can store
the digits in a array of
characters, so then we are not
limited to the space of integer
or long integer or double we can
accept. For instance, a number
of 1,000,000 digits. So instead
of just storing integer or long
integer double, we can store it
in an array of characters, so it
assumes the first number.
In an area called a.
And then the second number in an
area called B.
And these are the spaces
for the arrays.
And then it stores the number as
the characters. For instance, if
you put the number on 985 or
987 for instance, it stores like
this. Character 9 character
8 character 7.
If you restore another, the
second number for essence, it's
for us UH-35, so it stores the.
Number of 30 characters. 5
character. A fight.
And then it starts doing the
school mathematics of the
addition. So again, as I said,
the default Carrie is by default
0, so there is no position on
the right side. So the default
Carrie is 0.
So in order to convert the.
Integer value, the actual value
of the characters 7 and the
value of integer servant is
minus the character seven from
the character 0.
As you know, in a ASCII code, in
the course 1400, all the
characters are stored as the
ASCII code on the keyboard for
the keyboard. So if you minus
the each character from the each
digit characters from the
character zero, you end up with
the actual value of.
The number because the distance
within the. Code for the O
as the character and the
code 47 as the character is
the actual number.
So by doing this, seven
becomes seven as the
integer, five as the
character becomes five as.
So again, calculate 5
minutes minus characters. 7
becomes the actual value of
five, and then it sounds 5 +
7 + 5 becomes 12.
And then it divides 12 by 10.
The remainder goes here.
And the result of the division
goes as a carry, so then
they carry here becomes one, and
then again from IO2.
Sorry, hear some I.
Which is 0.
An incremental here is 012 until
end of the area.
It does this summation.
So let's back to the code.
So in this says here you can see
that here it does the actual
code, I mean addition from
Carrie default 0I to the length
of the biggest number.
Each character minus characters
zero becomes the actual value
plus next digit plus the
previous carrier, and then it
divided by 10.
The stores the results.
And then put the carry as the
actual result of the division.
So this is the remainder which
comes to the result of this sum.
And this is the division which
goes as a carrier. So this is
the main part of the program
already. I mean I will upload
this code into the.
Blackboard so you can browse the
code and see the preprocessing.
Before the actual adding an
post processing after the
actual added.
So let's build this program.
I run it and see is working
properly. So again, we can go
to the command line.
This cleared the.
Space. And then
find the project.
Here is the project larger dish.
And just this is the.
This is the program, and then
let's run it. So now we put.
This huge number.
Plus one.
As you can see, it's working properly, so if you put for instance a
digit number with 10 digits, all
the digits are 9 + 1. It becomes
a number with 11 digit 11 in the
leftmost an all other numbers
becomes, digits become zero.
So we can try for bigger
numbers, for instance this.
Plus
Yes.
And as you can see, the sun 9
plus none become 18, so eight
and carry on, and then it goes
99 and the leftmost is 1.
So it seems that the.
This program actually can solve
adding two very large numbers.
Ah. But again, is there any
limit to this program?
Any students actually,
if you want, you can.
So can you tell me what's the
problem with this program?
Correct, actually correct. The
thing is, Travis says that yes,
I mean we can put the large
number here, but up to where I
mean, how large is 2 numbers
gonna be? So as long as we can
store numbers as the area of
characters it's OK, but there is
a limit and that limit is the
memory of our computer system.
But this knowledge is not coming
from the computer science
discipline from algorithm or
data modeling. It comes from the
knowledge of computer system. So
you know you should know how.
Data is represented in a
computer system. What's the
capacity of computer system
in terms of the memory? And
then you approach another
solution to solve the adding
two big numbers.
So this is one challenge. So
again, I mean this sample shows
you that you have to be aware of
how a computer system or memory
is working in order to come up
with a good program.
The other problem
of this program.
All Nicolas and shop should I
know it's this program? Actually
one problem is that it doesn't
actually solve the adding two
floating or an in fractional
numbers, but we know the
principle so we can extend this
program to do the adding of two
floating numbers or two double
numbers. Those numbers that has
fractions, but the principle is
the same, so it's.
Easy to extend this program to
adding I mean floating numbers.
Also this program doesn't add
for instance negative numbers,
so it doesn't support signed at
addition, so you cannot for
instance here if I put.
Minus 2.
+2 result must be 0, but it says
minus four, so this program
doesn't work for signed numbers,
but it's still we know the
principle from high school or
from primary school, so we can
extend this program to support
this solution. But The thing is,
if as Travis says.
If you have a limited space, for
instance, if we have very small
amount of memory.
How can we handle that? How
can we solve that? It cannot
be solved just by programming,
so it can be solved by
building a better computer
system. So this is a very I
mean deep challenge or big
challenge for this program.
Any other program problem with
this problem with this code?
Wow, Yes.
Monica says that we can buy more
ram, but The thing is, what is
wrong? And I don't think it's
that is it? 'cause if is it
possible to know the structure
of ram or inside the Ram and
think of a solution that is
surging knew memory or new ram
is still using the same ram but
it is capable to do? I mean to
store more numbers, so that's
that's another motivation for
you so you can keep the existing
system. I mean a small amount of
memory, but because you know the
internal structure of the
memory, you can come up with the
program that can solve a story
that can store more numbers.
So that's another no. I mean,
big advantage of this course if
you know the internal structure
of the memory or CPU.
Uh, one thing actually, Travis
says, uh, correctly says this
program going to be slow.
When, as you can see, let me
share my blackboard again.
So here.
Is.
So.
This algorithm. Betrayed through
it each digit so it starts from
the first position I plus one.
So in the array it becomes a
zero and it increments the. I
mean the index to the end of
the area. So if the size of
a is an if the size of
B is N. So what's the running
time of this algorithm?
Or how many steps we have to
take or the program have to take
in order to solve adding two
numbers with N digits.
Travis says it's too,
and so anybody else
and to the power of 2.
Any other suggestions?
Oh, actually, with with you,
Sean says an so we have two
an end to the power of 2
Anan anybody else?
And to the power of. And
that's huge amount of steps.
So imagine if we put a number
with 10 digit it becoms 10 to
the power of 10. So it means
1,000,000 steps should be
taken in order to adding two.
The numbers with 10 digits.
It's still it's a good. It's a
good estimate. And to the
power 2 means that if you are
going to solve add 2 numbers
with 10 digit becomes 20 steps
or sorry 10 to the power of 2
becomes 100 steps.
Uh, two enemies 2 * 10 becomes
20 steps. Or if an is equal to,
let's put it here. Ann is equal
to can, so 2 N is 20 steps.
AN to the power of 2
means 100 steps and to
the power of enemies.
1,000,000 steps or.
On any other suggestion, Anne
Mohammed says an China steps.
So.
So I can see no other
suggestions, so let's
try that, let's see.
Uh, how many steps are this
algorithm is taking? So I
put a very I created a very
very large number so let me
show you that number.
Again, I upload all these codes
into the blackboard an so you
can browse it later.
Here I create a file called 50K
digit numbers. Basically it's a
number. Is 50,000
digits all our, uh?
Nine with digit 9, so
let me put it here.
So this is the number.
In the bottom let me just make
sure that you can see. Let me
share my. Screen.
So this is the number. A number
with 50K digits.
Because it has 50,000 lines an
in each line, all the characters
are nice, so this is 50K digit
number. So let's do it.
Additional 250 K digits ansi is
it is still fast or no.
So I just run this program.
And then I just go to this and
then control a selecting all the
characters, copy them.
And then come here when you're
in this, a Windows system in
command prompt you have two
instead of just pasting. You can
go here and do the paste.
Here paste or shift answered.
It pays the number. So this
is the 50K number.
And now another. This
is the first number and
now the second number.
And then execute this sound.
As you can see, this is the
result right away after running
the program and the last digit
is 8, because 9 + 9 becomes
eight goes to carry 9 + 9 eight
plastic alley, 19 nine and etc.
So the 1st digit is 1, which if
you scroll up we can see the 1st
digit if you're lucky.
So that's a huge number, so
we cannot see the first of
the number. But we can see
the last #8, but the time is
still zero. It means that
it's not kind of very slow.
So let's let's share my.
Uh.
Camera again.
So here instead of just
10, he said that.
50 Shades, so it means that
50,000. Digits.
But it's still as you see, uh,
if this is it becausw 100 can.
This is huge 50.
K to the power of two it's he
was also this one. It's very
huge 50 to the power of 50K.
So if this is the time it
would be, I mean to the end
of the world we have to wait
until we get the result.
The correct answer is an and the
reason is. As you can see, what
it at first step we do one song
and then second step another
song. Next step this song. So as
we increase the eye to the end
of the area so we do all this
summation. So when we are at the
ending position which is N minus
one, we're done also.
We are when we are in this
position and minus one. The
position in minus 1 zero to N
minus one. So N steps we are
done with the summation.
So also we have another carry
here, so we do another, for
instance son so becomes N minus
1 + 1. So in general we end with
any step. We are done with the
submission of each digit.
So that's the correct answer.
But again, even for the big
number of N, the program
actually slows down gradually.
So I just wanted to show you
that it still with this timing.
This program has a serious
problem with this speed. When we
do the addition multiple times.
So let's back to these slides.
OK.
He just said slides.
So these are the slides that we
did here. Create a project and
then run our first program.
Adding two numbers, simple
numbers and these are the
samples will run this saw
that there's a problem
with the simple addition.
And then we limit the user. We
didn't do that day, but you
can browse the slide and see.
But still I mean even if you
tell the user that there's a
limit to the integer is still,
there are some problems.
But then we add the project to
add to big numbers.
And you see that this program is
working properly even for the
two numbers with 50,000 digits.
And the timing is very fast as
we see the number of steps is
the number of digits and.
That man.
OK.
And then now I just wanted
to show you that.
If I reiterate this edition,
this I mean 250K digits.
For one time.
It's very fast, but if I run
this for 100 times.
And the application is for
instance for matrix addition for
matrix. If you have two matrix,
each one has a dimension 10 by
10 and if you wanted to do the
addition, it becomes 100 times
edition. So if you wanted to
addition of two matrix with
hundred elements, so we have to
do this summation instead of 1
time 100 times. So if we
increase the iteration, this is
the program I did.
To show you that if the number
of addition for this program
increases. From one 2 two 1000,
the running time increases two
linearly, so if you do the
additional 50K numbers 400,000
for 1000 times, it becomes 2
seconds and as I said, the
applications for matrix
summation. So again, we need
to know how to make it fast
and the knowledge we need is
the knowledge from computer
system. If we know how the
computer system is working
inside, we can come up with
the program that runs faster
and lowers down this.
Linear I mean increase of the
time to just a little bit slow.
I mean the sleep becomes a
little bit lower and the program
actually runs faster.
So I put this example to
shoot just to show you that
writing programs with
algorithm and data is not
enough is not enough
knowledge. You have to know
that these data and algorithm
R is stored and running in a
machine, so you have to know
basics of the machine it's
they are running on.
So there's a third dimension
to computer science, which
discuss is how the machine is
working and how can be built a
high performance machines like
high performance telescopes in
astronomy. How can we? How can
we be able to build high
performance computers?
So this is the first course in
this dimension. Digital design.
The Advanced Course is called
Computer Architecture 2 micro
processing, computer programming
and if you want to know more
advanced topics you have to go
to computer engineering or
electrical engineering program
to know how we built
manufactured the hardware.
So let us start with the course.
So this is the introduction to
the course. I hope you are
motivated why you actually have
to take the course for computer.
Digital design, because knowing
the hardware let you know how to
come up with efficient programs.
To store the memory, how to run
this statement by the program
inside the CPU?
So this is the name of this
course digital design this
course in other Department
called logic circuits.
And here is the link to the
website. You can you already
have a video to browse the
website and see different parts
of the website.
Uh, so this clip is already
made by Philip, so just
click on this.
Link and then let's
let's just show you.
Ah. Just click on this
and then it browses.
Between.
Open the video for you.
Awesome.
So in the in the announcement
and also in the lectures, you
find some helping videos.
So indeed, second announcement.
These are helping videos or this
is the video that shows.
Parts of the website.
Hello everyone, my name is
Philip Fam and I am a teaching
assistant for the greater
architecture. One digital design
classes. So I stopped the video
here but The thing is, these are
all on Microsoft stream, so you
need to log into the system by
your human ID order to see these
clips. Uh.
And I I really advise you to see
this video to browse the website
and different parts of the
website. Let me just quickly
show you this is the home page
for this course.
These are different parts. All
the things related to the
courses in this section.
And all the topics related to
labs or hear your grades
discussion board an helping
video. I mean resources here,
such as sample exams etc. My
office hour, an email to the
TAS, etc. So this is basically
all we have so, but in the
video Phillips explains more
for you. Please see the video
For more information.
And also the important documents
for this course is the learning
of outcome or it is called also
learning objectives. Basically,
in this document it says.
Is success successful student
after passing this course?
What's the knowledge or ability
of these students? So here I
just opened this document. Just
this. Just a PDF document. You
can have it in the blackboard.
And I just wanted to just show
you some very important details
of that. So a successful student
actually, after passing this
course, have the ability to
analyze it digital circuits.
Most importantly the CPU and
also to design a new circuit. So
if we give you some problem, you
are able to design in digital
circuits and also you can
explain how a computer system
works. But one thing is that
here in this course we don't
teach you how to build a digital
circuits or how to build a CPU.
So I'm in terms of physical
sense. You can design the CPU in
a pain and with a pen in a
paper, but you cannot build it.
As I said, you can take advanced
courses in order to gain
knowledge in building a CPU or
digital circuits, but here you
only can analyze an design.
And another important documents
for this course is the outline
also called syllabus in this
course is the contract basically
between me as the instructor
assistance. Giorti assistance
and also you as these students
so I just wanted to quickly
browse the document.
First of all, please make sure
that make sure to read all those
four pages or the document has
four pages. Uh, the version
right now in the blackboard is
version one. If we change this
document later within the
course, I'm going to change the
version. So when you open the
document and you see the version
is changing, it means that there
is a little bit change to the
document, so the next version
going to be for instance 1.1. If
it is a minor change. If there's
a huge change, it becomes
version two or version 3.
So this way you have the
indication that there's a
change to the outline.
This course is a second year
course and it is required for
important courses in computer
science such as database
management system or operating
system or computer networks. You
can see the list of recall I
mean courses that this course is
required for those.
Here.
Ah, the book. The main books
from this course all around the
world is this by Mono and
digital design. It's A kind of
very old book, but there's a new
version to this book. Addition
to this book 2018 so.
You can buy this online, the
online version of it, and
basically all the topics we
cover is from this book.
In terms of the marking, we
have lecture assignments. We
have 10 laps.
We have 14 weeks of lectures but
we have only 10 left. I mean
assignment for the lectures,
each one 2% total 20%. We have
10 laps each one 2%. So in total
20%. We have two exams, the
midterm 50% and the final is
30%. And one important thing is
the discussion board has a bonus
point plus 10%.
So I encourage you instead of
just asking your question in
office hour in privately or
sending email to me if it is not
private issue, I encourage you
to post it in the discussion
board. Then you can gain point
by asking questions or answering
the other students question.
This is a bonus point I highly
encourage you to participate in
the discussion. This discussion
board and if you overall if you
obtain more than 50% of the
markings. You pass, of course.
Let me.
OK.
So is there any?
All this is the just diagram
for the marking scheme. So two
paper exam and assignments and
free discussion board.
These are the topics we're going
to cover. The first week. Is the
meeting grid, and on Wednesday
we are going to start the topics
the numbering system.
As we see here, adding integer
number and then we set up. How
can we extend it to the
floating numbers and etc so you
can later see all these topics
for the 14 weeks, 13 weeks of
vector and 14 week is the final
exam important dates are
highlighted with green aples
mindful of these important.
Uh, dates for academic, I
mean issues.
Attendance because of the time
zone accommodation in this covid
era is not mandatory, but it is
encouraged and The thing is, for
each lecture or we provide
recording. So if anybody cannot
attend the lecture later, you
can see the recordings of the
video with caption English
captured at least.
And these are the lab
sections I'm going to
explain these few next
slides.
Are important notes to distance.
The most important one is this
the EIS statement. Please read
this carefully and be mindful of
this. We do not tolerate any
racial comments or any comment
that translate to marginalized
any students. Uh, this is my
responsibility and your
responsibility, and if you see
something like that, or if you
are subject to something like
this, please refer to the office
sexual misconduct response and
Prevention of also contact me as
soon as possible.
As with Accessibility needs,
please notify the office as soon
as possible in order to provide
you with the best accommodation.
Uh, the assignments are
individual. An latest legends
are receiving 0.
And, uh.
Midterm final exams. There's no
makeup exam for midterms, or if
you miss the metaphor verifiable
reason the weight close to the
final exam. There isn't a couple
final, but there's no make up
for the make up, so if you miss
the makeup exam for the final,
the whole overall marks you
obtained actually going to be
your final marks.
But The thing is, if you
wanted if you miss exam, you
have to provide some
verifiable reason for medical
reason or other issues.
I provide religious or
spiritual of observance
accommodation, but please
let me know in advance so I
can extend the deadline for
you or I can prepare some
accommodation for you. Even
accommodate academic
accommodation if you have
more than three exam in one
day or three. Simon one day
let me know. I can
accommodate that for you.
You can appeal the marks
within one week of release.
Images of the great again for
the bonus, please participate
in the discussion board.
These are the by laws and
process. Is that you have to
follow as all this for me. For
instance, pleasures submission
receive 0 for all the students
that participate in the
plagiarism action. So please
read this part very carefully.
You can communicate with me
through the email, but your
official email and also in the
discussion board in extreme
cases or in an emergency case
you can use Microsoft team, but
we focus on blackboard
discussion board and email.
And these are other nodes I just
wanted to quickly.
Browse the labs. These are the
assistance in this course. The
GS, our instructor for the labs
and the TSR, the marking or
helping me moderating the
electors. Uh, these are the
information for them. There's a
document called lab guide in the
lab section, so please read this
carefully in order to become
familiar with the lapse.
Essentially, for each week I
prepare in manual and so you
have to follow the manual and
submit an assignment based on
that manual I already prepared
for the first we can. I'm going
to release it. I mean late this
week. Tellabs the deadline for
the submission for the lecture
assignments and lab assignments
are Wednesdays, midnight
anywhere on the Earth.
Anyone on Earth is a place that.
The day ends. The Wednesday ends
are the last place in the world
that the the day ends. So if you
click on this link, you can see
where the location is in the
world. So basically, based on
the Ontario time it is about
6:00 or 7:00 AM. But this is
because of the time zone
difference for these students.
So Wednesdays anywhere on the
Earth is the deadline.
And we're going to release the
mark after one week.
And we already said the
attendance on the lab section is
not mandatory again, so it's
optional, but the assignments
are all mandatory.
And one thing is that the lab
doesn't have any office hour
anymore. So but The thing is
they are available through the
weeks for your email, so they
are responsible to reply back to
you as soon as possible. And for
instance, if you put a question
in discussion board, they have
to answer it right away. Or if
you send an email they will be
replied to you right away and
instead of just having officers
so it's kind of based on ad hoc
communication with you.
In order to attend the lab
alone, there's a video how to
attend the lab room. Again. You
can browse this video and see
how you can find your section
and attend the Laboral.
For participating in discussion
board again, there's a video you
can browse this video and know
how to attend, how to
participate in the discussion
board and obtain your bonus
points by putting questions or
replying to other students
questions. We monitor regularly
the discussion board.
And finally, about me.
Ah, this is me. Actually. I
recently graduated from
University of New Brunswick.
This is when I was in the third
year PhD, second year in my PhD
in Wisdom Conference. I'm
typically a sport guy, so I do
swimming, biking and bungee
jumping, so this is the
communication email you can
email me and I'll try my best to
answer right away. This is my
home page you can know about me
more in this home page.
And. There's a video for you
how to attend the officer. My
office hours right after this
lecture at the start at 10. So
I'm going to be in the office
and waiting for you for your
question or any other issues.
This video helps you how to
find the office room and how
to attend the office.
And we have a weekly schedule in
the website. This is the weekly
schedule. And the
lectures and labs.
And this is the deadline for
you, based on the Eastern Time,
it is 7:00 AM.
But as I said, it's Wednesday
anywhere on the earth and
based on the Eastern Time it
becomes 7:00 AM Thursday. Next
day Thursday morning.
And I will upload all these codes for each lecture in the codeline
section of the lecture and you can browse it later. And if
you want you can extend that and
thank you so much. Now I'm ready
for your questions.
Do you want me to read them to
you? Yes, you can read it to me based on first question
first served. Sir, one of the first ones. Will there be
a lab this week?
Sorry, where do we, what?
Will there be a lab this week?
No, no in the first week
there's no lab. The lab
starts next week so, but I
released the lab manual for
the first week, which is
going to be next week. I
mean, late this week, so late
this week I will release the
lab manual for the first lab
in the next week.
OK, Next One was.
Will we meet the hexadecimal?
Ah. Actually, I'm not familiar
with the hexadecimal learning.
So I have to read about that. I
don't know what it is.
Moan about hexadecimal. Oh, I
see that you mean.
Numbers oh, I thought it
said method. I mean teaching
or yes, yes we will. We will
discuss the coding numbers
in different bases. One of
the basis is based 16 which
is called hexadecimals. Yes.
Um, so you don't have the final
exam in the past force?
No no yes yeah overall 50%. So
you might, for instance you my
pastor chords even before the
final exam. So because the final
exam only has 30%. So before the
final exam you might have for
instance the full 70%. So then
you don't need to attend the
final exam to have the.
To pass the course.
OK, the last one. Will there be
slides posted under resources?
Uh, sorry I didn't get that
question. Will the slides be
protected under resource is yes?
Yes yes no no no under the
resources but in the let me let
me show you where.
Uh, let me bring it here. All
this you know here in the let me
close this. In the left side,
all the things related to the
lecture is going to be in
this here. If you click on
the lectures.
So this is the welcome video.
This is helping with yours for
attending the classes and ETC
for the first week. For each
week I posted the slides and etc
here. For instance, for the
first week today in the I mean
this link week number one I will
post the slides here in it and
grid and on the Wednesday when
we are done with the
presentation I post the slides
here. Also I put all the codes
here. So each week there's a
folder in the lectures.
Section for each week I put all
the resources here. So do not go
to this place. This place is
just overall help. For instance,
sample exams etc. So if you want
to find this lecture material
you go, you have to go here.
And then go to the folder
for that week.
So any other questions?
No other questions.
OK, OK, thank you everyone for
your attendance and hope we see
you on Monday and we have a great I mean
course or semester.
Have a great day. I'll be on my
office, I mean right away. I
mean right now so I'm ready for
your questions or any issues or
private issues. Thank you so
much. Have a great day.